Cycle 2506 Changelog (#179)
vatnz-dev/sops: docs/changelog/2025/2506.md

---
  title: Cycle 2506 (12 Jun)
---

--8<-- "includes/abbreviations.md"

> A relativley large release this cycle, with changes to a number of aerodrome procedures. IFR Procedures have been introduced in Ruatoria (NZRR).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A relatively large release this cycle, with changes to a number of aerodrome procedures.
```

## SOP Changes

### Content

The following content has been added:

> - Chritchurch AD Special Conditions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Christchurch AD Special Requirements
```
Should this actually be in here as it looks like this was merged quite a while ago and isn't AIRAC specific?

----

## Data Changes

- The following ICAO waypoints have been established:
    - `OVMIL`, `ELGAV`, `OMBAL`, `UKALI`

- The following Navaids have been disestablished:
    - `KK NDB/DME` 

- The following airspace has been amended:
    - `NZD621` disestablished and replaced by `NZM602`

### Aerodrome

#### NZDN: Dunedin

##### RWY 03

- The following SIDs have been amended and resequenced: `BIDEL 4P`, `BIDEL 3R`, `BASOS 4P`, `AKPIN 5P`
    - `BIDEL 4P`: Waypoint `DOTVA` removed from sequence between `NOMUG` and `BIDEL`.
    - `BIDEL 3R`: Waypoints `RULOL`, `LUTSA` removed and replaced by `KAMVU`.
    - `BASOS 4P`: Waypoint `MOXET` becomes `MESOG`, applies to `ADKOS` transition only.
    - `AKPIN 5P`: MSA adjusted.

>         - Above procedures: Waypoint `DUKES` becomes `GUTED`.

Reviewer: Suggested moving to this to be the first bullet point with "All SIDs: Waypoint `DUKES`..." ?

Author: @rb-vatnz 

As it is not an ENR waypoint, I think it should stay with the AD section?

- The following STARs have been amended and resequenced: `MIPAK 3C`, `MIPAK 6A`, `DABCA 3A`, `EPDAB 3A`, `BASOS 5A`

>     - `BASOS 5A`: Waypoint `MOXET` becomes `MESOG`, applies to `ADKOS` transition only.

Reviewer: Add "Minor track adjustments" to cover over STARs assuming that's the reason for the change?

Author: Affirm, adding note

- The following RNP approaches have been amended: `RNP RWY 03`
    - Missed approach waypoint `DUKES` becomes `GUTED`

##### RWY 21

- The following SIDs have been amended and resequenced: `BIDEL 4Q`, `BIDEL 5S`, `BASOS 3Q`, `AKPIN 3Q`, `ALBOX 3Q`
    - `BIDEL 4Q`: Major resequence, `NOMUG`, `DOTVA` removed.
    - `BIDEL 5S`: Major resequence, `RULOL`, `LUTSA` removed and replaced by `KAMVU`.
    - `BASOS 3Q`: Waypoint `MOXET` becomes `MESOG`, applies to `ADKOS` transition only.
    - `AKPIN 3Q`, `ALBOX 3Q`: Tracks and MSA adjusted.

- The following STARs have been amended and resequenced: `MIPAK 4B`, `EPDAB 3B`, `DABCA 3B`, `BASOS 4B`, `AKLAR 3B`
    - Minor track adjustments.

- The following RNP approaches have been amended: `RNP RWY 21`
    - MSA reviewed and updated

#### NZKK: Kerikeri

- The Kerikeri NDB/DME, `KK NDB/DME`, has been removed.

>     - NDB approaches and conventional NDB-based SIDs have been removed.

Reviewer: If these have names then should be listed out as being removed?

Author: We don't simulate the NDB approaches but we can mention the SIDs, which we also don't simulate.

It's easier to remove the second BP so I will do that, as it's not awfully relevant
